>>If you're ready for a wild
ride and a hoot to boot,
you'll love this
close-up interview
with Dannion Brinkley.
Whoever said lightning
never strikes twice
was wrong, dead wrong.
The first time lightning
struck Dannion,
he was essentially
fried and lay dead
for 28 minutes,
sheet over his face,
before returning from
an incredible journey
to the other side.
The second time, which resulted
in a near-death experience,
Dannion realized there
was a story to tell,
a story that will
ensure that anyone who
is facing transition, which
will ultimately be all of us,
will view the experience in a
much more embracing and loving
way.
For many, his story actually
takes away the fear of dying.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Well, in 1975, I'd never heard
of the near-death experience.
Dr. Moody's legendary
book, Life After Life,
had not been
produced or written,
and Raymond was still
doing his research.
And I was just living in
South Carolina growing up,
not very well,
I'd have to admit,
because my basic
character nature was
you dealt with everything by
popping it in the face first.
And I thought that that was
really how it really worked.
And then I was just
talking on the telephone,
just an average
day in September,
a normal dog days, light
thunderstorms in the afternoon,
in South Carolina.
Nothing cosmic,
just a normal life
of someone growing up there.
I'm hit.
I'm talking on the telephone,
I'm hit in the head
by a bolt of lightning
that goes down my spine,
enters my side of my
head goes down my spine,
welds the nails of the heels
of my shoes to the floor.
Throws me in the air,
suspends me in the air,
and slams me back
down on the bed.
Dead for 28 minutes, completely
paralyzed for six days,
partially paralyzed for
seven months, two years
to learn to walk
and feed myself.
And I discovered every
aspect of reality
that is possible to conceive of.
I know pain, and anguish,
and suffering, and fear,
and grief, and bereavement,
and depression.
25 years old, sent home to die.
I happened to have survived
a lightning strike,
but that was nowhere near
the two opposite directions
my life was gonna take.
One was remembering
the spiritual world
that I had explored in two
years of lying in a bed,
humiliated and paralyzed,
never to be anything
except a vegetable and a burden.
Those are two completely
different worlds, one waking
and one in remembering.
If I had not had
what happened to me
in the near-death experience
and the consequences
of that awareness, I
would have never lived
through getting up "from
the dead," quote unquote.
>>Well, this begs the question:
what was the experience,
and what were you shown?
What did you experience?
Are you talking about
in that 28 minutes--
>>Yes.
>>--that allowed you to,
basically, end up here today?
>>And to survive.
>>To survive.
>>I'm lifted out of my
body, and I became aware
that I was less interested in
the material, emotional world
than ever before.
I just lifted up.
Once I'm on fire, I'm
burning, I can't move.
The next minute, I'm out of it.
I'm safe.
I'm at peace.
Everything is cool.
I know this place better
than I know anywhere.
But it wouldn't have mattered
if I'd had been in hell.
It was that I wasn't
paralyzed, burning,
and on fire is the
first thing I noticed.
And I was safe.
I look around in this
blue-gray place, it's calm.
I see myself.
I watch people work on
me as though I'm just
looking at it as a movie that
I'm casually interested in.
You know, points
catch my attention,
but it's not really important.
>>When you say
people work on you,
are you talking about the EMTs?
>>The EMS, the people, Sandy
and Tommy, Sandy my ex-wife
and Tommy my friend, came over.
The paramedics came.
They called the parameds.
They came.
They worked on me.
They got me to the hospital.
But I wasn't really
involved in all of that.
It was just
something to look at.
I was in a new place at a new
time with a new perspective,
and it was comfortable.
And then I watched them, and
they load me in the ambulance,
and I follow myself
out to the ambulance.
I see raindrops on my face.
I watch them close the doors.
And that's about all
I remember of that.
The next thing you know, I hear
these sounds, these chimes,
these tones.
And it's like an onion, peeling
away the skin of an onion.
I could feel myself start to
be pulled down this tunnel.
And as I go down
this tunnel, I'm
peeling away parts
of me, good things.
I become lighter.
And I come into this place
of light, and it's brilliant
and it's beautiful, and it's
dazzling in its wonderment.
But what was so amazing
about it, Regina, was this.
The lightning had
burnt my eyes so bad,
I couldn't really see the flash.
But after I got out of my
body, I could see very well.
And this light did
not hurt my eyes.
It did not burn my eyes.
It is though it infused into me.
And it was amazing.
And it was not like
smoke but like a mist,
like on a early fall
morning in the South
when you see the mist come
over the-- the blue-silver mist
in the morning.
And then this being appeared.
And this being was a sense
of all knowing and safety
and wonderment, but it was
like an old friend, too.
I believe that that being that
we all meet is our true selves.
And they call it God,
Buddha, Mohammad,
whatever the name you call it.
It's really the true
part of you that
never left that realm
we call the heavens.
And as I experienced
this, I watched it,
and then, all of
a sudden, I began
to feel childlike emotions that
grew into psychologies, that
became a complete
panoramic life review.
My life passed before me
in 360-degree, holographic
panorama.
I felt every emotion, every
scent, every smell, every idea,
every concept.
But what was so dazzling
is that I comprehended it.
It was as though I knew
everything about all of it.
And then I watched it from a
second person point of view,
like we watch our friends.
And then I literally
became every person
I had ever encountered.
I felt the direct results
of my interaction between me
and each of those people.
Now, most of the
time, people freak out
when I tell them that, because
they start to think about all
the bad they've ever
done in their life,
and they're going to feel it.
Well, you think about
how many good things
you do each and every day.
It's the little
simple things, when
you say hello that
means something
to the spiritual world.
>>And you saw everything
in that degree
of depth, even the
tiniest moments?
>>The tiniest moment.
The wisp, an eye
view, an eye sight,
passing someone in a corridor.
I mean, you don't miss a thing.
It is amazing that you have
missed nothing about this life.
You have experienced every
scent, every fragrance,
every view, every point,
every laughter, every frown,
every smile, every
compassionate point.
And you understand
it, and you relive it.
And as you watch it and become
every person you've ever
encountered, you have
done far more good
than you've ever done bad.
Trust me.
You know, I know--
>>Because you were
used to popping people.
>>I know the game.
And I got to see-- you know,
it was pretty rotten stuff,
but I had to look at it and
to understand that there's
fairness, and there's justice,
and there's righteousness,
and that things are
truly in order, where
you don't have
any fear of death.
We have to stop all that and
really empower ourselves.
But I think the
most important part
was, one of the most
important parts,
was the system of judgment.
After I had this
panoramic life review,
there was a system of judgment.
Who judges you?
You do.
What is amazing is no one
is more critical of yourself
than you are of yourself.
You will judge you
with such precision.
No god could ever
do it that precise.
No devil could ever do
it that precise as you.
And when you start
to think about it,
the way you would interpret
it-- and this is a Dannionism
because we all have our own
ways of explaining what we think
is or is not-- but the
system of judgment,
as I would perceive it, is this.
If God couldn't come
today and God sent you,
in the life you just reviewed,
what difference did God make?
That defines our
divinity, point blank.
We represent, in
an unfolding world,
the difference that God makes.
And when you stop
to think about that,
you smile a lot more, tap
people on the back a lot more.
You help a child.
You become more patient
and more tolerant.
And like I always
say, I've worked
so hard at being
patient and tolerant
because I'm not
good at it at all.
I think my life mission is
just to be nice one day.
And if I can ever
just be nice one day,
I think I would have fulfilled
anything greater than getting
up from the dead, because
I can get up from the dead,
I just can't be nice all day.
You know, somebody
will piss me off,
and I will unload on
that sucker, you know.
Once a person sees
this, and remember,
I've been through it three
times, but once you see it,
there becomes a safety factor.
There is a life after death.
There's a way you
leave this world.
There's a way you review it.
There's a system of measurement
by which we all go through.
And then, this being
traveled with me,
and all that stuff was
gone and it was over.
And we were like in
the expanses of when
you look at "Battlestar
Galactica" or "Star Trek."
We're in the universe.
We're moving through the
dimensions and realities,
and you see these cities.
Like I always say it's like
pulling into Denver at night.
You see these houses all on
the sides of the mountains.
But these are crystal cities,
and there's so many of them.
Like "in my Father's house,
there are many mansions."
True.
OK.
It's not a little
biblical phrase.
It's really true.
And you move toward these
crystal cities, and this being
and I, and I entered
this crystal city.
But the coolest part was, as
I moved from the outer realm
into the portal that was into
this great cathedral made
of glass and crystal,
it was, for a moment,
I was no longer
Dannion Brinkley.
I wasn't that person anymore.
I was something more
divine and more truly me.
I didn't have all the
opinions and attitudes
of Dannion Brinkley.
And I distinctly remember
this, that I could conceive
of anything from a drop
of water to the expansion
of the universe,
and it was wild.
You know, I always thought
I was a know-it-all,
but when you go to
heaven, you really
find out you are a know-it-all.
And I'm wandering in
this place, these beings
appear, these
beings, and they're
like what honesty and integrity
and greatness and courage
would symbolize.
And they appeared, and they
moved forward, and then
a 13th being, as
though they were
in control of what
was about to happen.
And these boxes
of knowledge, what
I say about and say
these beings seemed
to become more radiant
than the others.
And I would only focus
like you and I are talking.
And then this box would come,
and it was like a box that
would open like a-- you
know , maybe I died and went
to the Radio Shack.
And it would open, and
I would see an event,
and I didn't know it was going
to be the future, Regina.
I didn't have any idea it
was going to be the future.
Now, that was 1975,
and this is 2005.
>>What were you
seeing, and how is it
playing into today
all these years later?
What was it you saw?
I saw the events of where
we would be by 2004,
and I wrote it in
Saved by the Light.
It became what made me famous.
But watching the Chernobyl,
watching what pollution does,
watching war, watching the
Middle East, these things
that I have foretold
are coming true.
It means this: that we have
entered a period of time
where rapid growth
is going to occur.
You can never become
a great sea captain
when you sail a calm sea.
You must be pushed
to explore the depths
of your joy, your sadness,
your compassion, your empathy,
and maybe sometimes
your sympathy.
And this period is
upon us, and it's
going to force us to reach to
the deepest depths of ourselves
to achieve the highest standards
and goals of a spiritual being
that we possibly can.
The greatest thing you will
learn in the spiritual world
is that nothing is
written in stone.
Free will and choice, and making
the right ones change it all.
And as I went through these,
and they're all in those books,
I mean, in Chapter 5
in Saved by the Light,
which I wrote 10 years
ago, I say exactly where
the world is going
to be in 2004.
The border of a
war, the unfoldment
of a great spiritual
advancement,
or some serious trouble.
Our choices are here.
Where we sit right now,
we make the choices
of where the next
10 years will be.
It'll be good, it'll be
bad, but it's up to us.
And then I wanted to stay.
I never wanted to come back.
I didn't know it was the future.
I've just watched
it now for 30 years
and lived with that knowledge.
I didn't want to come back.
And if they'd had
given me a choice,
I would have never come back.
But all of a sudden, I'm
floating above myself
in a hospital room.
I've been through
intensive care.
I'd come through
the emergency room.
They lost me.
They covered me with a sheet.
They rolled me in a room because
they were busy that night,
and they're waiting to
take me to the morgue.
I just appear in the
hallway looking for me.
First I've got to
find me, and then I
got to figure out how to
get back in that body.
Well--
>>No instruction
manual for that?
>>Yeah, I mean, would you
put something to heel?
I mean, how many of you know
how to get back in a body?
OK?
And how do you get a dead body?
When I looked at it, that
sucker was a little stiff.
And I was trying to figure out,
how was I going to get in it?
How was I going to make it work?
And how was I going
to tell people,
because I didn't
know what to do.
Then all of a sudden,
I'm back in this body.
I'm not breathing.
And I'm conscious, and I'm
aware, and I'm burning,
and I'm on fire, and I hurt.
And that world
was fading really,
really fast that
I had just seen.
And the world of the reality
I was about to deal with
was on me, and I had to
figure out what to do.
So I pulled with all my
might to take a breath.
And I could feel the emotions of
the people who were losing me,
who thought I'd already gone:
my mom, my dad, my brother,
sister, Tommy, the
closest people to me.
And this breath came in,
and I blew the sheet.
Whoo, whoo.
>>What happened?
>>Tommy saw it.
He started yelling.
You know, it was
like a horror movie.
You know, it was like Freddy
Krueger was waking up.
And they woke him
and got him going.
They pushed me back in there and
worked on me and got me stable.
And there began the
next four years.
If I had not drifted between
this world and the world
I had left, I would have
never found reason to survive.
You cannot endure that kind
of lightning and that kind
of power, that kind of damage,
and not have something to hold
onto.
I was fortunate it was
the near-death experience.
>>In that original
lightning strike,
did that set up
some situations that
were going to cause your next
three near-death experiences?
>>Absolutely.
>>OK.
So can you continue from there?
I guess an extension
of that question is,
did you continue in each
near-death experience
to be given more information and
go back to these beings again?
>>Yes.
The second time I got
struck by lightning
was just to get my attention.
I was struck by lightning
September the 17th
at 7:05 PM 1975 on a
Wednesday afternoon
during a thunderstorm.
I never went back in that room.
You couldn't get me
to go back in there.
I never went back in
there from that day
forward, never, never
went back in there.
So I moved.
So in May of 1978, I was
in the bedroom talking
on the telephone, and I got
struck by lightning again.
Now, think about it.
I mean, I can tell you--
>>What were you
doing right or not?
>>I got it.
Hey, stupid, you're
not paying attention.
So guess what?
We're going to kill you again.
And we're going to make
it a coincidence so
that when you tell
it to anybody,
they're going to
look and realize
that you're really dumb,
because there is absolutely
no way this could
be a coincidence.
You know?
We're going to kill you
exactly the same way doing
the exact same thing.
OK?
So there is a light-hearted
world of spirituality.
And I need people
to care more about
that than I need them to
care about anything else.
And as we do this
interview, that they
feel the presence
of my relationship
with the spiritual world.
So they kill me, you know?
And so they try to
teach me, and so they
try to get me to do better.
And they have a way of
getting my attention.
>>[LAUGHING] I'll say.
>>OK.
But it was all to
keep unfolding.
And in 1989, I
started feeling bad,
and I knew something was wrong.
But you know, like
most of us, you
don't want to pay
any attention to it.
And I couldn't breathe, and I
lay on a bed for about two--
on a couch for about two days.
And I decided to
go to the hospital.
So I went over to the hospital,
and I wrote my first book.
Because if you ever go
to an emergency room,
and you don't have
insurance, you
will write a book
about your life.
And they rolled me
in the back room,
and this little
intern came in, looks
like he'd been working
about five days.
And he said, are you OK?
And I said, I'm in the hospital.
You know, what do you think?
I couldn't sit down because
I'm about to pass out.
He thought I had the flu because
it was the Hong Kong flu.
He'd treated 100
of them that day.
He took my pulse and
my blood pressure.
His eyes got as big as saucers.
He said, "I'll be
back in a minute."
He comes.
And here comes the
guys with this cart,
and these little green feeties
on, and this little hat,
and these little charred little
things you put on your chest.
And he said, "Um, Mr. Brinkley?"
And I said, "Yeah?"
He said, "Do you think I
should tell you the truth?"
You know?
And I said, "Fool, I just
paid $275 to come back here.
I can get somebody
cheap-- I can get somebody
to lie to me a lot
cheaper than this.
Yeah, I want to know."
He said, "Well," he said,
"you have congestion
in your left lung," he said,
"but you're in heart failure.
You'll be dead in 45 minutes."
I said, "Well, damn, Doc.
You reckon I ought to sit down?"
Let's synchronize our watches.
Dead in 45 minutes,
what time you got?
[LAUGHTER]
I'm out of here.
All right, looking good.
>>He didn't know that that
was not a punishment for you.
>>No, boy, we was on time.
Because there was
no way I was going
to come back down
the tunnel this time.
I'd already figured it out.
I wanted to be cremated.
And why?
Because can't you
see me coming back
into an urn on the
dresser at my house?
You know, can't you see
the people all out--
>>Get rid of that body.
>>Yeah.
See the people all
out there in the yard,
like we see visions of Mary.
But I want that-- I'm
gonna fry that body.
I want it cremated.
Because there was
no way-- you don't
kill me two or three
times and think
I won't figure out how to
get out of that situation.
And so I said, listen,
I'm out of here.
I wake up.
They're shaving
the hair off of me.
I fall over, collapse.
I'm in a coma.
I come out of it.
They're shaving all
the hair off of me.
And I hate to tell you, when
they do open-heart surgery,
they shave the hair
in a lot of places
you would never think
that they would.
>>That they need to.
>>And I asked this guy, I
said, what are you doing?
He said, we're prepping
you for open-heart surgery.
I said, what?
I said, where's my watch?
What time is it?
Where's that lying doctor at?
45 minutes I know has passed.
And this is me messing
with them because when
you know there's a
life after death,
you have so much more
fun dealing with the pain
and the suffering of it.
And I went through
an event, and Raymond
came to see me, Dr. Moody.
And I said, OK, I'll stay.
I went in for
open-heart surgery.
I went under the mask.
I could describe
the conversations
that went on during the surgery.
I watched it.
I floated above and
watched the surgery.
I watched them cut my
chest open, and open it up
and take my heart out,
and cut my heart open.
And it's pretty amazing,
modern-day equipment,
and what they talk about in
an operating room as opposed
to what you think
they talk about.
Whoo.
None of the doctors
wanted to mess with me
after that because it's
amazing when you tell them
what they were talking
about, and you're supposedly
not conscious.
>>Yeah.
They're seeing a lawsuit
coming down the pike.
>>They're seeing their own
personal lives laid out
in front of the world.
And I watched it.
And then chimes came, and I
moved back down the tunnel.
I came into the place of light.
I had a second
panoramic life review.
It had been 14 years.
I saw how much
better I'd become.
I hadn't been nice
all day yet, but I
had gone through a lot of
days where I almost was.
But I'd seen the difference
between the first experience
and the second one, and
that's a place of empowerment.
And then I went to
this crystal cathedral,
and I went into
this place that was
a place that was
even more wondrous.
It was color and light and
essences and fragrances.
And it was a place where--
And what they were
trying to show
me is that you can
build and create places
on this Earth that meet
and live in harmony,
and that you can dwell, and
that the ever-present nature
of spirit can be found.
Like what people
say churches do,
and what great paintings do,
and what day spas are today,
and what health spas, and
anti-aging, and all the things
that we're looking at today.
I saw it a long time ago.
And there are ways
in which that you
can move beyond the
physical and move
into the emotional ethereal.
And this place I was
shown, what it had to do,
and how you had to do it,
and how you would create it,
and what it was about.
And it talked about
stress, and then I
realized stress was the
number one killer, and just
the things.
It's so wondrous that,
in the other side,
they know what's
going on, and they
tolerate us making
fools of ourselves.
And they laugh at us doing the
dumbest stuff in the world.
But they know.
But they don't
intercede or interject.
They just support and try
to help us move through it.
For me, they get my attention
by killing me, which works.
And it's about the only
thing that would have worked.
Trust me, as
hard-headed as I am.
I And it's just the way I am.
You kill me, and paralyze
me, and cut my heart out,
and drill holes in
my head, because
after the open-heart
surgery, from complications
of open-heart
surgery, I had to take
Coumadin, which is rat poison.
And our blood gets
too thin or too thick,
blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah.
Because if you get
struck by lightning,
you have so many different
things that happen to you.
Being struck by
lightning is now,
in the National Institute
for Health's Office
of Rare Diseases and
Disorders, called--
it's a rare disorder
called keraunomedicine.
Because people
have been-- because
of neurocardiac--
cardiopulmonary resuscitation
in the neurocardiac
wards of hospitals,
you can bring people back.
So more people who are struck by
lightning are surviving today,
and we have become a science.
OK?
And that makes me
babble on into shamanism
and cultural shamanism and
people struck by lightning.
All of a sudden, the lightning
shaman cultural history
became real in my own life.
So after I went through
the-- I came back.
It took me nine months
of lying in the bed
for open-heart surgery.
They gave me nine
months to live.
They said if I live,
they were going
to have to cut a
muscle out of my back,
wrap it around my
heart, and I'd lose
60% of the movement on my
left side, but I'd be alive,
and I would have at
least 40% of a life,
dragging my left arm
and left leg around.
And that was supposed
to be impressive.
I just laughed.
Nine months, OK, I'll try it.
Because I'm out of
here in nine months.
You won't be wrapping any
muscle around my heart.
Forget that crap.
That's over.
Goodnight, Irene.
I'll see you turkeys later.
And I just smiled and
grinned and waited for me
to get out of there.
And then seven years later,
I got on an airplane.
I had succeeded in
something that I
believe is my life's work.
According to the vision,
it had two steps,
spiritualistic capitalism.
An endeavour, a cause, something
grander than I could ever be
that I could start, which
became The Twilight Brigade,
one of the largest
end-of-life-care volunteer
programs for veterans
in American history.
We die with more
veterans, out of the honor
that they came to defend our
will to be free Americans,
than any other
organization anywhere.
And I started it.
I got on a plane to come home.
Because of Coumadin and
Tylenol, acetaminophen-- they
didn't discover
until two weeks after
that the two reacted
to each other.
They strip, somehow,
the blood vessels.
And I had three subdural
hematomas explode in my brain.
The first two exploded.
The first one exploded
in a 35,000 feet
in a pressurized cabin.
You have no idea what pain is
like in a pressurized cabin.
I don't know how I got home.
And I got in, and the next
day my dad came to see me,
and a friend, Mel, came over.
And my dad said take
me to the hospital.
I get to the hospital, they
couldn't stop the bleeding.
It kept swelling.
My brain was swelling.
I was coming in and
out of consciousness.
And they said they had
to do brain surgery.
So on September the 17th at 7:05
AM 1997, 22 years and 12 hours
to the day, to the
day, on a Wednesday
morning during a
thunderstorm, they
took me in for brain surgery.
Don't you love coincidences?
>>Yeah, coincidence.
>>Hi, Dan.
We're going to kill you again.
And we're going to kill
you with such style
this time that no one will
get away with the fact
that you're stupid, and
you're not listening.
>>And you still haven't
been nice for a whole day.
>>And you haven't been
nice all day once.
Bam.
I go in to have brain surgery.
They drills holes here
and here, and they
start to relieve the pressure.
I spent 41 hours in recovery.
Then I had a massive
grand mal seizure,
went into cardiac arrest.
And they brought me back.
I have worked harder at
being nice all day since '97
than I have ever worked
at it before then.
It's a difficult task, but,
you know, I'm still standing.
So what it all
really means is there
is no such thing as
death, there's only life.
We are powerful and
mighty spiritual beings.
We have destiny,
hope, a purpose.
We choose to come to this
world, and we're chosen to come.
And people just have
to accept it and quit
getting in their own way.
Because when you give
up a part of yourself
to buy into something
you know is wrong,
you sell a part of
yourself that blocks you
from seeing who you are.
I've done it all my life.
I'm getting out of my way.
The third near-death
experience, as you know,
was the most awakening.
The first two were perfect.
I mean, everything was cool.
If you can have a perfect
near-death experience,
I had them.
The third one was in
the brain surgery.
The place I went to was
the standard system,
except the blue-gray
place, the place
I thought both the
other times I was alone,
I realized that I wasn't,
because I was hanging closer
to the body and to the hospital.
And I stayed longer.
I stayed longer in
this blue-gray place.
And I would look around,
and it was dimensions.
There are worlds where
people get trapped.
I understand that now what
ghost, and poltergeist,
and Earth-bounds, and
attachments, and possessions,
and whole places where people
get depressed and don't
know why.
Because there are levels
of energy around us, where
if we're not truly spiritually
grounded, we're trapped.
And I think that one of the most
important missions of my life
is to make people aware
of that and to create
a way that would
support and help them.
I saw so many veterans
because they were in prison.
They died a horrible death.
There was things, and
they just couldn't let go.
They couldn't go
down the tunnel.
They couldn't accept
what happened.
A lot of abused people,
but a lot of abusers.
And they're all trapped
in there together,
going through the same
crap over and over
again because they
refuse to let go.
Some don't think they deserve
it because of what they've done.
And some who won't do it
because they think they're
going to have to
face themselves.
But it's just a
hodgepodge that's
not creating enough
spiritual groundedness in us
to move forward.
I believe that they
can create a stoppage,
that the more people who
get trapped in that place,
the harder it is to get through
it to get to the tunnel.
So what compassion and action
is The Twilight Brigade is,
is a way to help veterans
on this side move
through that layer of
the blue-gray place
and get to the other side.
And have those who've already
made it help their brethren
to get across the Heavenly Host.
Because there is no such thing
as an atheist in a foxhole.
And in the combat
and the military,
you're just looking after
the guy next to you.
And that way, I can create
a bridge between this world
and the next world, and
to help people, and hope
to inspire people who deal in
abuse, who deal in not being
nice, cynicism, these kinds
of things, to not be that way,
or they'll just
get trapped there.
>>So when it's
all said and done,
from everything you've seen
now over the last 30 years,
what are the principle tenets
we should, as beings, adhere to?
>>Number one, never lose
focus in your identity
as a divine spiritual being.
Never allow anything
to take that focus.
You are a divine, powerful,
mighty spiritual being
with destiny, purpose,
and direction,
no matter what's going on.
96% of what's going on
around you, you created.
You did it to yourself
to help you grow, expand,
or understand some premise.
The other 4% could have
had a little effect.
Somebody might have
kicked you, made you mad.
But 96% of it, you caused it.
Second, you choose to
come to this world,
and you're chosen to
come to this world.
And if you were chosen, it
means that the divine force
believes that you are the one.
And if the chances of someone
being exactly like you
on the Earth is 1 in 16 billion,
and there's only 6 billion
of us here, then you're the one.
And accept that you're
on a divine mission.
And every day, look at
it from, what difference
can I make to improve
that quality of divinity?
God couldn't come
today, and God sent you.
In the life you just reviewed,
what difference did God make?
You will be amazed at how more
insightful, how creative you
are to improve it as opposed
to ignore it, hide from it,
or walk away from it.
The other is the four-fold path.
I write about it in The
Secrets of the Light.
And as I write about it,
which is really Kathryn
and I writing about
it, I mean, my wife
is the brains behind
this whole operation.
She's like, behind
every great man
is a woman kicking his ass to be
the best that they can possibly
be.
But as we write about it,
there's the four-fold path.
There is choice: to know,
as a spiritual being,
you have choice.
You don't have to
do good or right,
and nobody can do
anything about it but you.
But there are consequences
for your reaction.
But you have a choice and you
can choose to do greatness,
or you can choose to do nothing,
or you can choose to do damage.
The universe does not
know the difference
between right and wrong.
It does not, so you must.
Second, you must identify
love as the source
of all power, which is the
appreciation of everything
around you, to observe it,
appreciate it, good or bad.
And look at those
things that you admire,
because appreciation--
admiration
is constant appreciation
that becomes
a mindset of what you admire.
And then see what you admire,
traits in other people.
And you will see the
traits in yourself
that you want to improve.
Teach best what you
most need to learn.
I most need to learn to
be patient and caring and
compassionate, so
I do hospice work.
Number three, belief.
Create a belief system so that
you have faith in humankind.
Put yourself in places
that you believe
in what is the
potential of humankind.
Because once you have
something you believe in,
you have faith in other
people seeing it in you,
and then recognize
it in themselves.
And it is that they
are a divine spark
of the connectiveness of God.
And last, the true source of
your power, to use it, prayer.
Willful, conscious intent
that collectively together we
can pray.
And in being able to do that,
using willful conscious intent,
we are collectively, as one
consciousness, moving forward.
That's real power.
If a person is either learning
about prayer, about belief,
about love, and about choice,
or trying to teach it,
you will find
harmony in your life.
You're either teaching
it or trying to learn it,
and that's the key.
And live a good life.
Be caring and compassionate.
Be respectful.
But more than
anything else, listen
and seek to understand
where a person is
so that you can help them.
I'll play the hand I'm dealt.
Because when you know don't
die, and you know you're loved,
and you know you have
choice, and you have belief,
and you can understand
love, and you
have the potential of
the power of your prayer,
and to collectively use
that with other beings,
you can achieve anything.
And you just play
the hand you're dealt
and be happy that you
have that opportunity.
>>It sounds like you were
dealt a pretty good hand.
You have a wonderful
wife, a wonderful life.
And you have the
satisfaction of knowing
that thousands,
millions of people
have been helped by your words.
>>And I'm achieving the
centers and building
Compassion in Action.
And I hope it stands
as a symbol that there
is a life after death, and that
we are so truly loved, that you
can stop and start
over any time you want,
and you can use the
four-fold path to do it.
And I hope that people
start today finding
something that they
care about and a cause.
And as soon as
this show is over,
look up what you can do to
change other people's lives,
to help those less fortunate,
and to find a cause as
great as you can
live up to achieving.
And once that happens, the world
opens up to every opportunity.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>As you can imagine,
Dannion is an incredibly
entertaining and
inspiring speaker,
and I highly recommend
you try to see him
if he's lecturing in your area.
In the meantime, he's written
three books, including
his latest, The
Secrets of the Light.
Visit his website
for more information.
Meanwhile, another
fascinating take
on the subject of
life after life
is from Dr. Mitchell Gibson.
While working as chief
resident of a hospital's
psychiatric ward,
Dr. Gibson began
seeing patients who had died
days, even weeks before,
standing in the
hospital hallways
and walking through walls.
This is an incredible interview.
Until next time,
thanks for watching.
[MUSIC PLAYING]